Flexlay
=======

Flexlay is a generic 2d editor with special focus on games. It
currently supports multi layered tile-, object- and bitmaps, full
undo/redo, support for tile-brushes, easy copy/paste, multiple
buffers, minimap support, a metadata editor and some other stuff
usefull for creating levels for 2d games.

Supported games are at the moment:

 Windstille - http://www.nongnu.org/windstille/
 netPanzer  - http://netpanzer.berlios.de/
 SuperTux   - http://super-tux.sourceforge.net/
 Pingus     - http://pingus.seul.org/

Other Stuff:

 Paint - A basic application with animation and graphic tablet support 

Flexlay can't be run on its own, but instead of you have to start it
via wrapper scripts (supertux-editor, windstille-editor,
netpanzer-editor).

For informations on how to compile and run Flexlay see the file
INSTALL. Flexlay makes use of OpenGL so you will need working hardware
3d support.

Flexlay is covered under the GNU GPL, which means that you can copy
and even modify it pretty much as you like, as long as you keep the
copyright headers in place and distribute the source too if you
distribute binaries, see the file COPYING for details.


Installing Flexlay 
==================

Requirements:
=============

To compile Flexlay you need a recent ClanLib 0.7, quite often the
latest not-yet-released development version from the subversion tree,
available at:

  * http://www.clanlib.org

And you need scons (a make replacement) available at:

  * http://www.scons.org

In addition to that Ruby, available at:

  * http://www.ruby-lang.org

And for the games you need a recent copy of them, most often latest
development version of them is required.


Compilation:
============

Just type:

 $ scons

and it should build everything automatically if the prerequirements
are meet. 


Running:
========

The directories supertux/, netpanzer/, paint/, pingus/ and windstille/
contain the editors for the games, just run the executable scripts in
there. You might need to adjust the path to the game data, which is
currently hardcoded in the scripts.


Installing:
===========

Currently not supported, run directly from the source directory.

Notes:
======

Flexlay is still a moving target, so most often you are better of
using the latest development version instead of a tarball release.
Latest version is available via subversion at:

svn checkout svn://svn.berlios.de/flexlay/trunk/

Flexlay 0.1.0
=============
 - splitted flexlay into a C++ library and a scripting modules, Ruby
   and (very limited) Python support is now available
 - restructured the scripting bindings
 - C++ object hierachy now completly available in scripting
 - switched build system from autohell to SCons
 - support for resizable rectangular objects
 - better support for sprite objects
 - support for constrained object movement
 - major GUI cleanup
 - a icon-toolbar
 - configurable keyboard shortcut support
 - SuperTux: support for multiple sublevels and most features of
   lasted development version
 - NetPanzer: support for object based level building, no more need to
   mess with raw tiles
 - Pingus: basic support for loading levels and saving them, however
   only limited editing capabilties
 - Paint: a simple paint application with support for animation

Flexlay 0.0.1
==============
 - first release
 - zoom support
 - multilayer tilemap support
 - tilemap to png converting
 - tile brushes
 - simple copy/paste
 - undo/redo
 - game object support
 - SuperTux support
 - netPanzer support
 - Windstille support
 - Pingus support (load only)

# EOF #
